# Puppet PR Triage Notes 2014-11-19.md

COPY OF LAST MEETING NOTES - TO BE EDITED DURING MEETING

Recording: https://www.youtube.com/ TBD

### Attending

* **Adrien Thebo (adrienthebo)**
* **Felix Frank (ffrank)**
* **Hailee Kenney (hailee)**
* **Henrik Lindberg (hlindberg)**
* **Josh Cooper (josh)**
* **Rob Nelson (rnelson0)**
* **Rob Reynolds (ferventcoder)**
 
### Summary

At the start of the triage, open PRs:

* Puppet 46
* Facter 6
* Hiera 0

## New

We decided to use the github issue tracking system instead of using separate notes. From now on there will be a "Notes from triage" in the PR. PRs that have been triaged (are in flight) are now labeled with "Triaged" at github.

The following tickets were triaged:

[Open](https://github.com/pulls?q=repo%3Apuppetlabs%2Fpuppet+repo%3Apuppetlabs%2Ffacter+repo%3Apuppetlabs%2Fhiera+is%3Apr+label%3ATriaged+updated%3A%222014-11-12+..+2014-11-18%22+is%3Aopen+)<br>
[Closed](https://github.com/pulls?q=repo%3Apuppetlabs%2Fpuppet+repo%3Apuppetlabs%2Ffacter+repo%3Apuppetlabs%2Fhiera+is%3Apr+label%3ATriaged+updated%3A%222014-11-12+..+2014-11-18%22+is%3Aclosed)

## Held Over
### Facter

### Hiera

### Puppet

[3238](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3238) - [PUP-3547](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-3547) File Server Mounts Should Support Directory Environments
  - this adds the ability to have different mount points for every environment
  - 10/29 - ffrank asked contributor whether there was a workaround for pseudo-modules?
  - ferventcoder asked if this opens a possible security issue due to %e opening up possible elevation. zaphod42 mentions this doesn't open any issues that were not already there.
  - zaphod42 states we already have a way - you create a module with your environment files. ffrank mentioned this earlier as well
  - ferventcoder mentions possible big files and git, even though user is not restricted to using git for a repo
  - zaphod42 states that this could be done now with just putting your files in a data module. And modules is where we should be going with this.
  - ffrank mentions this could be done as a sort of enhancement for r10k (like symlinks to local directories posing as modules)
  - ferventcoder pinged adrienthebo on r10k capabilities (it does support svn)
  - **Action**: 10/29 - ffrank commented on the ticket and we are waiting to see what need the contributor has for this.
  - 11/05 - Discussions: Suggest using plugin sync (issue with plugin sync and environments being fixed in 3.7.4)? Problem is that file server has no notion of environment what so ever. Questionable if the suggested fix in the PR is better than other available workarounds.
  - **Action**: 11/05 - if security is an issue many more changes are required, and if security is not an issue then other suggested work arounds are just as good. ffrank to comment on PR.

[3219](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3219) - [PUP-3481](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-3481) A more forgiving regexp for parse_selinux_context()
  - 10/22, change relaxes the rule for matching quite extensively - what are the rules for the format?
  - **Action**: 10/22 - kylog - ask if there is a specification.
  - 10/29 - NO REVIEW
  - 11/01 - Contributor responded
  - 11/5 - zaphod42, there is no actual specification, so relaxing the regexp is reasonable.
  - **Action** 11/05 - finch to merge
  - 11/05 - finch left comments for author, waiting on contributor
 
[3107](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3107) - [PUP-3319](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-3319) - Retry send report if connection to master fails
  - sets a limit of 4 tries, but adds a retries parameter
  - zaphod42: this may catch system exit as well. That can be fixed.
  - zaphod42: it would be good to have a test, so if report does fail
  - much discussion and looking at removed retryaction.rb.
  - we'd want to clean this up and bring it back in as retry_action.rb
  - add blocks that could be passed to retry_action.
  - **Action**: 10/01 - We are going to fix up retryaction and then reevaluate this PR.
  - 10/07 - NO REVEW - Holding on this until we have retryaction updated.
  - 10/29 - NO REVIEW
  - 11/05 - blocked on PUP-3379, retryaction still hasn't been added back
  - 11/12 - blocked on PUP-3379, retryaction still hasn't been added back

## Merged or Closed Prior to Triage
### Hiera

### Facter

[778](https://github.com/puppetlabs/facter/pull/778) - [FACT-698](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/FACT-698) Add fips_enabled fact
  - Josh adding notes to this PR and related PUP-3114 PR at 3044
  - Uncertain of the value of the fact if we don't intend to merge PUP-3114
  - Pinged Nick F on PUP-3114 for addressing this in docs
  - 10/01 - still believe this is a documentation issue for explicit. If we fix the doc in Puppet, not sure if this is something to move forward on with facter.
  - 10/07 - NO REVIEW
  - 10/15 - ferventcoder pinged NickF/Joshcooper on the ticket about whether a decision has been made
  - 11/05 - (Joshcooper) problem with feature is the need to restart from scratch since all generated keys will be wrong and cause segfaults after switch to fips.
  - **Action** 11/05 - finch to comment on the PR about implications, what needs to be documented, what does not work etc.
  - 11/05 - finch closed PR

### Puppet

[3165](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3165) - [PUP-1077](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-1077) Remove Nagios from core
  - daenney was curious where this was and if there was anything to do
  - kylog said we are about a week or two out on this - working on logistics
  - **Action**: 10/22 - holding while we work out logistics
  - 10/29 - NO REVIEW
  - **Action**: 11/05 - britt to merge - then work out any packaging issues.
  - 11/05 - kylog said the PR is not ready yet
  - 11/12 - kylog said the PR is still not ready, closed the PR while we work out internal packaging issues, will reopen once the PR is ready to be merged.

[3202](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3202) - [PUP-3479](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-3479) Update Windows ffi dependency to new ffi
  - 10/22 - ticket was logged, fixes made
  - **Action**: 10/22 - ferventcoder to merge
  - 10/29 - NO REVIEW, holding while we work out a couple of issues
  - **Action**: 11/05 - whopper to review and merge
  - 11/05 - whopper merged

[3124](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3124) - [PUP-3346](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-3346) Don't allow insecure SSL connections w/curl
  - ffrank noted that the `-k` is there from the beginning of time when this provider was added
  - **Action**: 10/15 - kylog left a note on ticket asking if this would be an issue specifically with OS X as it appears this is what this addresses
  - 10/29 - NO REVIEW
  - 11/5 (josh) ok with merging since the change makes the config more secure by default. If it then does not work, it is a separate problem. (ffrank) Change is good for 4.0, you will get errors if you do not trust upstream package managers. We have poor test coverage.
  - **Action** - 11/05:  hailee to merge, add test if needed
  - 11/05 - hailee merged
  
[3027](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3027): [PUP-3232](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-3232) Prevent group duplication when group list created from multiple sources
  - Need JIRA ticket, and some sort of tests
  - As of 9/10, Kylo to notify contributor
  - Specs and ticket added, but specs failing
  - 10/01 - followup next meeting (skipped)
  - 10/07 - kylog to take this and fixup
  - 10/15 - kylog to look at this week
  - 10/29 - discussion on whether this is valid or would break other things if fixed. ferventcoder asked if you could have multiple groups with the same name. ffrank not sure if this is necessary.
  - **Action**: 10/29 - Waiting on more feedback
  - 11/05 - (ffrank) it is a provider issue. Everytime it runs it is out of sync. The provider should do this in a different way - each provider should get its group list from its specific source (may have other implications). Unclear relationship between user/group managing types and their providers discussed. Puppet reads the "effective" user/group entries, but manages them using specific services. (finch) just because two groups have the same name does not mean that they are the same thing. The problem is the same as for package managers where only one provider can be selected. (josh) can identities (sids) be used instead of names like in the windows provider?
  - ** Action**: 11/05 zaphod42 to close PR, needs more specification of what is actually needed to solve this a good way.
  - 11/05 - finch [closed](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/3027#issuecomment-61884904)

[2770](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/2770): [PUP-1537](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PUP-1537) Allow version and held states of a package to specified as separate properties
  - This is a very big and sticky issue, and might be worth promoting into the platform team because of the wide ranging ramifications
  - Plan is to discuss how we promote issues like this, and respond to the contributor with our next steps forward
  - Pending contributor response, willing to wait on this since we're asking a lot of the contributor
  - Will need to talk with Adrien tomorrow and figure out how to hand this off.
  - Didn't have time to look at on 8/27 -- major PR that has breaking changes and could require work.  Would need to be targeted at Puppet 4 at the very least, but this one is tricky.  Will try to investigate at next PR meeting.
  - As of 9/3, punting this one a week, since it's a BIG change
  - As of 9/10, probably punting to post-PuppetConf - too big for now
  - **Action**: 10/01 - This needs a ticket number and should probably be one of the workshopped PRs kylog had mentioned in his email on triages. That way we could concentrate on this one. The commits would need fixed up to include ticket number
  - 10/07 - ferventcoder pinged contributor about failing specs
  - 11/05 - joshcooper pinged contributor about failing specs
  - **Action**: 11/05 - josh to close PR with note to resubmit when issues have been addressed.
  - 11/11 - josh [closed](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet/pull/2770#issuecomment-62513388)
